## Paper Metadata

- Title: No Need to Lift a Finger Anymore? Assessing the Quality of Code Generation by ChatGPT
- Year: 2024
- Authors: Zhijie Liu, Yutian Tang, Xiapu Luo, Yuming Zhou, and Liang Feng Zhang
- Preprint: No, published by IEEE
- Link: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/10507163
- Interesting part for seminar paper: Chapter 4.4 (p. 21-27)

### One sentence takeaway
  - In this study, we perform a systematic empirical assessment to the quality of code generation using ChatGPT.

### Most intersting find
  - The multi-round fixing process with ChatGPT generally preserves or increases the complexity levels of code snippets.


## Methodology
  - The paper explicitly defines RQ1–RQ5, which structure the study.
  - We construct a suitable prompt for the given LeetCode problem or CWE scenario and send the constructed prompt to ChatGPT.
  - ChatGPT generates a response based on the current round provided prompt and the previous round conversation context.
  - We extract the code snippet by ChatGPT.
  - For the generated code, we leverage LeetCode online judgment to test its functional correctness, or we utilize CodeQL for the CWE scenarios.
  - If the testing result passes (e.g. pass all test cases or no vulnerability detected) the code generation process ends.
  - Otherwise, there are bugs (e.g. compile error) in the generated code snippet.
  - If the round number with ChatGPT does not exceed the limit of 5 a new prompt is constructed and the process started again.
  - If the testing is consistently unpassed and the round number exceeded, the code generation is considered failed.

#### Analysis:
  - manual
  - LeetCode online judgement
  - CodeQL (Version 2.12.2)

#### CWE classification:
  - 18 CWEs


## Experimental Setup

#### LLM model(s) used:
  - GPT-3.5-turbo-0301

#### Programming languages used:
  - C, C++, Java, Python, and JavaScript
  - C, C++ and [Java or Python] (-> not 100% clear) for secure code generation evaluation

#### Prompting strategy:
  - For each CWE, three different code scenarios (context) are provided for code generation.
  - The goal of our prompt design is not to find the optimal prompt that maximizes ChatGPT’s performance.
  - Our goal is to provide a reasonable prompt that simulates real-world usage scenarios, especially for code generation, which can also avoid overfitting to the specific prompts and datasets.
  - Principle used: offering sufficient information to ChatGPT while leveraging its dialog ability (established from prompt templates)

#### Dataset / tasks:
  - 728 algorithm problems in five languages collected from LeetCode platform. We collect all problems on LeetCode, and divide them into two categories, problems before 2021 (Bef. problems) and problems after 2021 (Aft. problems). Since ChatGPT is trained on text data before 2021, Bef. problems and corresponding solutions may have a high probability to appear in its training set.
  - 18 CWEs with 54 code scenarios in MITRE Top 25 CWEs for the code generation task

#### Evaluation metric
  - Comprehensive analysis of code snippets generated, focusing on three critical aspects: correctness, complexity, and security.
  - Status Rate metric
  - Wilcoxon rank-sum test
  - Cliff’s Delta


## Results
  - ChatGPT is better at generating functionally correct code for problems before 2021 in different languages than problems after 2021 with 48.14% advantage in Accepted rate on judgment platform, but ChatGPT’s ability to directly fix erroneous code with multi-round fixing process to achieve correct functionality is relatively weak.
  - The distribution of cyclomatic and cognitive complexity levels for code snippets in different languages varies.
  - The code generated by ChatGPT has relevant vulnerabilities.
  - The multi-round fixing process for vulnerable code snippets demonstrates promising results, with more than 89% of vulnerabilities successfully addressed.
  - Code generation may be affected by ChatGPT’s non-determinism factor, resulting in variations of code snippets in functional correctness, complexity, and security.

### Types of vulnerabilities identified
  - Overflow
  - Data Neutralization Issues
  - Input Validation
  - Unsafe Memory Operation
  - Unathenticated Access
  - Information Leakage