## Paper Metadata

- Title: How secure is AI-generated code: a large-scale comparison of large language models
- Year: 2024
- Authors: Norbert Tihanyi, Tamas Bisztray, Mohamed Amine Ferrag, Ridhi Jain & Lucas C. Cordeiro 
- Preprint: No, published by Springer
- Link: https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s10664-024-10590-1

### One sentence takeaway
  - This study compares state-of-the-art Large Language Models (LLMs) on their tendency to generate vulnerabilities when writing C programs using a neutral zero-shot prompt.

### Most intersting find
  - We want to emphasize that simply requesting a secure version is not an effective approach towards achieving a secure code


## Methodology
  - Two research questions:
    - How does the security of LLM-generated code differ across various models?
    - What are the most typical vulnerabilities introduced during C code generation by different LLMs using neutral zero-shot prompts?
  - We present the FormAI-v2 dataset, consisting of 331 000 compilable C programs generated by nine different LLMs.
    - This consists of code generation of 20000 distinct prompt type-style combinations.
    - Clone code detection is needed to minimize duplicated code. (Types 1, 2, 3-1, 3-2).
    - In total, 20 469 programs were excluded, resulting in a final dataset of 310 531 unique files.
  - The next step was classifying our dataset using ESBMC


#### Analysis:
  - formal verification: Efficient SMT-based Context-Bounded Model Checker (ESBMC)

#### CWE classification:
  - Yes


## Experimental Setup

#### LLM model(s) used:
  - GPT-3.5-turbo, GPT-4o-mini, Gemini Pro 1.0, Gemma-7B, Falcon-180B, Falcon2-11B, Code LLama-13B, LLama-13B, Mistral-7B

#### Programming languages used:
  - C

#### Prompting strategy:
  - Static prompt component remains unchanged for all prompts: general description
  - Dynamic prompt component undergoes continuous variation: generic placeholders for type (program domain) or style

#### Dataset / tasks:
  - Extended FormAI dataset to FormAi-v2 dataset which comprises 331,000 compilable C programs generated by these LLMs.

#### Evaluation metric
  - Max SLOC, Avg SLOC, Avg Cyclomatic Complexity (CC), Verifcaton Success/Unknown/Failed, Error


## Results
  - Our study reveals that at least 62.07% of the generated programs are vulnerable. Dereference failures and buffer overflow issues are the most prevalent vulnerabilities across all models, ranking arithmetic overflow as the third most common type.
  - The differences between the models are minor, as they all show similar coding errors with slight variations. Our research revealed that all examined models introduced vulnerabilities in at least 50% of the generated code.
  - Regarding, which model is the most secure coder, the results indicate that there is no clear winner.
  - GPT-4o-mini outperforms GPT-3.5-turbo while showing the highest VU percentage under current ESBMC settings, indicating its ability to produce more complex and longer outputs.

### Types of vulnerabilities identified
  - Dereference failure: NULL pointer
  - Buffer overflow on scanf
  - Dereference failure: invalid pointer
  - Dereference failure: array bounds violated
  - Array bounds violated: upper bound
  - many more