## Paper Metadata

- Title: Security Weaknesses of Copilot-Generated Code in GitHub Projects: An Empirical Study
- Year: 2025
- Authors: Yujia Fu, Peng Liang, Amjed Tahir, Zengyang Li, Mojtaba Shahin, Jiaxin Yu, Jinfu Chen
- Preprint: No, published by ACM
- Link: https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1145/3716848 and https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.02059

### One sentence takeaway
  - We conducted an empirical study, analyzing code snippets generated by GitHub Copilot and two other AI code generation tools from GitHub projects.

### Most intersting find
  - LLM generated code is frequently insecure even after being adopted in real-world projects e.g. on GitHub.


## Methodology
  - We collected the code generated by Copilot and other generation tools that has been used in projects on GitHub and analyzed the security of the generated code through the lens of open source development environment.
  - Then, we used static analysis tools to perform security analysis on the collected code snippets and classified the security weaknesses in the code snippets using the Common Weakness Enumeration (CWE).
  - We utilized Copilot Chat to fix code snippets generated by Copilot, demonstrating Copilot’s ability to fix security issues to a certain extent.

#### Analysis:
  - manual
  - CodeQL in general
  - Bandit for Python
  - ESLint for JavaScript

#### CWE classification:
  - Yes


## Experimental Setup

#### LLM model(s) used:
  - Copilot
  - CodeWhisperer
  - Codeium

#### Programming languages used:
  - Python, JavaScript

#### Prompting strategy:
  - No prompts were used for generating code since the study analyzed already generated code on GitHub.
  - However, prompts were used to fix vulnerabilities.
    - Example: Is there a security weakness with this code snippet? If so, please fix it and return the fixed code.

#### Dataset / tasks:
  - We curated a dataset of code snippets generated by Copilot that has been used in projects on GitHub and conducted security checks on them.
  - We first used keyword-based search to collect projects and files containing code generated AI code generation tools from GitHub and filtered them manually.
  - In addition to this, we also categorized the application areas of these code snippets.
  - As a result, our dataset consisted of 733 distinct code files, with 672 from Copilot, 38 from CodeWhisperer, and 23 from Codeium.

#### Evaluation metric
  - Percentage of code snippets with security weaknesses
  - Number of security weaknesses (total and per snippet)
  - Number and distribution of CWE types


## Results
  - Our analysis identified 733 snippets, revealing a high likelihood of security weaknesses, with 29.5% of Python and 24.2% of JavaScript snippets affected.
  - The security weaknesses are diverse and related to 43 different CWEs.
  - We further examined using Copilot Chat to fix security issues in Copilot-generated code by providing Copilot Chat with warning messages from the static analysis tools, and up to 55.5% of the security issues can be fixed.

### Types of vulnerabilities identified
  - CWE-330: Use of Insufficiently Random Values
  - CWE-94: Improper Control of Generation of Code
  - CWE-79: Cross-site Scripting
  - and more