## Paper Metadata

- Title: LLMs in Web Development: Evaluating LLM-Generated PHP Code Unveiling Vulnerabilities and Limitations
- Year: 2024
- Authors: Rebeka Tóth, Tamas Bisztray & László Erdődi 
- Preprint: No, published by Springer
- Link: https://link.springer.com/chapter/10.1007/978-3-031-68738-9_34

### One sentence takeaway
  - This study evaluates the security of web application code generated by Large Language Models, analyzing 2,500 GPT-4 generated PHP websites.

### Most intersting find
  - A manual review of 50 samples, where neither static nor active scans detected errors, found that 33 (66%) were overly simplistic, lacking critical functionalities necessary for vulnerability exploitation.


## Methodology
  - Research questions:
    - What is the extent of vulnerabilities in the PHP code generated by gpt-4 in a zero-shot setting?
    - Does the generated PHP code achieve a level of complexity and realism suitable for real-life deployment?
  - We use variety of programming challenges that represent typical developer tasks.
  - Our methodology utilizes two distinct prompts: one for generating PHP code, and the second for producing an tailored init.sql ﬁle for each site.
  - Scans & Audits:
    - Dynamic: We utilized Burp Suite Professional for dynamic vulnerability scanning for SQLi and XSS vulnerabilities.
    - Static: Python scripts were used to identify missing critical security measures in the following areas: ﬁle upload functionality, ﬁle extension validations, and prepared statements
    - Manual Code Audit: 50 samples for each vulnerability type
    - Penetration Testing: 50 sites were randomly selected where none of the scanning methods have found any issues for the examined vulnerabilities.

#### Analysis:
  - Burp Suite active scanning
  - static analysis through Python scripts
  - manual review

#### CWE classification:
  - Yes


## Experimental Setup

#### LLM model(s) used:
  - gpt-4-0125-preview, GPT-3.5 (for generating init.sql files to reduce costs)

#### Programming languages used:
  - PHP

#### Prompting strategy:
  - Prompt template
    - Code generation: dynamic prompt has three components: task, product and style.
    - init.sql generation: static prompt with PHP code appended

#### Dataset / tasks:
  - We developed ChatPHP-DB, an AI-generated PHP website dataset that consists of 2,500 standalone PHP programs (index.php + init.sql pairs)
  - 171 tasks, 53 products, 100 styles

#### Evaluation metric
  - For dynamic scanning we classiﬁed detected vulnerabilities by severity — high, medium, low, and informational — choosing to report only the high-severity vulnerabilities for our analysis.


## Results
  - Overall, our analysis found 2,440 vulnerable parameters.
  - According to Burp’s Scan, 11.56% of the sites can be straight out compromised.
  - Adding static scan results, 26% had at least one vulnerability that can be exploited through web interaction.
  - Certain coding scenarios, like ﬁle upload functionality, are insecure 78% of the time, underscoring significant risks to software safety and security.

### Types of vulnerabilities identified
  - Insecure File Upload
  - SQL Injection
  - Stored XSS
  - Reﬂected XSS