## Paper Metadata

- Title: Asleep at the Keyboard? Assessing the Security of GitHub Copilot’s Code Contributions
- Year: 2022
- Authors: Hammond Pearce, Baleegh Ahmad, Benjamin Tan, Brendan Dolan-Gavitt, Ramesh Karri
- Preprint: No, published by IEEE
- Link: https://www.computer.org/csdl/proceedings-article/sp/2022/131600a980/1FlQxERjKCs

### One sentence takeaway
  - In this work, we systematically investigate the prevalence and conditions that can cause GitHub Copilot to recommend insecure code.

### Most intersting find
  - Where certain bugs are more visible in open-source repositories, those bugs will be more often reproduced by Copilot.


## Methodology
  - To perform this analysis we prompt Copilot to generate code in scenarios relevant to high-risk cybersecurity weaknesses.
  - We study Copilot’s behavior along three dimensions:
    - diversity of weakness
    - diversity of prompt
    - diversity of domain -> hardware CWEs in Verilog
  - We constrain ourselves to the challenge of determining if specific code snippets generated by Copilot are vulnerable: that is, if they definitively contain code that exhibits characteristics of a CWE.
  - Minor fixes (e.g., braces) were sometimes applied automatically.

#### Analysis:
  - manual by Authors
  - automated by CodeQL

#### CWE classification:
  - yes


## Experimental Setup

#### LLM model(s) used:
  - Copilot

#### Programming languages used:
  - Python, C, Verilog

#### Prompting strategy:
  - Prompts are handcrafted to represent security-relevant scenarios and represent incomplete code snippets completed by Copilot.

#### Dataset / tasks:
  - For each CWE, we write a number of ‘CWE scenarios’.
  - These are small, incomplete program snippets in which Copilot will be asked to generate code.
  - Copilot is asked to generate up to 25 options for each scenario.
  - For diversity of weakness, we construct three different scenarios for each applicable “top 25” CWE. 7 of the Top-25 CWEs were excluded due to limitations of the experimental setup.
  - For diversity of prompt, we chose CWE-89 (SQL Injection). Overall, we collected results for 17 different scenarios.
  - For diversity of domain, we chose six hardware CWEs that we could manually analyze objectively, resulting in a total of 18 scenarios.

#### Evaluation metric
  - % of vulnerable programs
  - comparison of vulnerable and valid outputs
  - wheter top suggestion is vulnerable


## Results
  - In total, we produce 89 different scenarios for Copilot to complete, producing 1,689 programs.
  - Of these, we found approximately 40 % to be vulnerable.

### Types of vulnerabilities identified
  - CWE-787: Out-of-bounds Write
  - CWE-79: Improper Neutralization of Input During Web Page Generation (‘Cross-site Scripting’)
  - CWE-125: Out-of-bounds Read
  - CWE-20: Improper Input Validation
  - CWE-78: Improper Neutralization of Special Elements used in an OS Command (‘OS Command Injection’)
  - CWE-89: Improper Neutralization of Special Elements used in an SQL Command (‘SQL Injection’)
  - CWE-416: Use After Free
  - CWE-22: Improper Limitation of a Pathname to a Restricted Directory (‘Path Traversal’)
  - CWE-434: Unrestricted Upload of File with Dangerous Type
  - CWE-306: Missing Authentication for Critical Function
  - CWE-190: Integer Overflow or Wraparound
  - CWE-502: Deserialization of Untrusted Data
  - CWE-476: NULL Pointer Dereference
  - CWE-798: Use of Hard-coded Credentials
  - CWE-119: Improper Restriction of Operations within the Bounds of a Memory Buffer
  - CWE-200: Exposure of Sensitive Information to an Unauthorized Actor
  - CWE-522: Insufficiently Protected Credentials
  - CWE-732: Incorrect Permission Assignment for Critical Resource