## Paper Metadata

- Title: Is GitHub’s Copilot as Bad as Humans at Introducing Vulnerabilities in Code ?
- Year: 2024 (published 2023)
- Authors: Owura Asare, Meiyappan Nagappan, N. Asokan 
- Preprint: No, published on Springer
- Link: https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s10664-023-10380-1

### One sentence takeaway
  - The aim of this study is to determine if Copilot is as bad as human developers.

### Most intersting find
  - Overall, we conclude that Copilot is not as bad as human developers at introducing vulnerabilities in code.
  - We found that there were some vulnerability types where Copilot was more likely to generate vulnerable code than fixed code.


## Methodology
  - Using a dataset of C/C++ vulnerabilities, we prompt Copilot to generate suggestions in scenarios that led to the introduction of vulnerabilities by human developers.
  - The suggestions are inspected and categorized in a 2-stage process (exact match categorization & manual recategorization of category C) based on whether the original vulnerability or fix is reintroduced.
  - For each of the selected samples, we curated prompts representing the state of the project before the vulnerability was introduced by the human developer.
  - We created a buggy file, which was the version of the file that contained the vulnerability.
  - We created a fixed file, which was the version of the file that contained the fix for the vulnerability.
  - We also created a prompt file by removing the vulnerable lines of code as well as all subsequent lines from the buggy file.
  - We opened prompt files in the VS Code text editor and placed the cursor at the desired location at the end of the file.
  - We did not attempt to identify whether other vulnerabilities were introduced by Copilot.

#### Analysis:
  - We associated each sample with one of three categories:
    - A: Copilot outputs code that is an exact match with the vulnerable code
    - B: Copilot outputs code that is an exact match with the fixed code
    - C: All other types of Copilot output
  - We then asked three independent coders to manually examine each sample in Category C to see if they could be recategorized into one of the other two categories based on the coder’s expertise.
  - Coders were CS graduate students with ≥4 years experience.

#### CWE classification:
  - Yes, the dataset provides it.


## Experimental Setup

#### LLM model(s) used:
  - Copilot

#### Programming languages used:
  - C, C++

#### Prompting strategy:
  - Through prompt files which are created by removing vulnerable lines and everything after from the buggy file.

#### Dataset / tasks:
  - Dataset used is Big-Vul. It is a dataset of C/C++ vulnerabilities across several project repositories on GitHub.
  - The dataset consists of a total of 3754 C and C++ vulnerabilities across 348 projects.
  - In this study, due to the significant manual effort required to interact with Copilot and analyze its results, we capped our sample size at 153.
  - We selected samples that had single location changes within a single file, a publish date and changed in a single contiguous block.

#### Evaluation metric
  - If the code generated by Copilot does include the vulnerable code it is categorized to A. If it contains the fixed code then B. Otherwise C.
  - For the recategorization of category C, two out of 3 coders had to agree and the code must have been compilable.


## Results
  - We find that Copilot replicates the original vulnerable code about 33% of the time while replicating the fixed code at a 25% rate.
  - However this behaviour is not consistent: Copilot is more likely to introduce some types of vulnerabilities than others and is also more likely to generate vulnerable code in response to prompts that correspond to older vulnerabilities.
  - Overall, we conclude that Copilot is not as bad as human developers at introducing vulnerabilities in code. (Since it produced the fixed code in 25% of cases).

### Types of vulnerabilities identified
  - Improper Access Control
  - Improper Control of Resource
  - Incorrect Calculation
  - Insufficient Control Flow Management
  - Protection Mechanism Failure
  - Improper Neutralization
  - Improper Adherence to Coding Standards