## Paper Metadata

- Title: How Secure is Code Generated by ChatGPT?
- Year: 2023
- Authors: Raphaël Khoury , Anderson R. Avila , Jacob Brunelle , Baba Mamadou Camara
- Preprint: Yes
- Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2304.09655

### One sentence takeaway
  - Specifically, we ask ChatGPT to generate a number of program and evaluate the security of the resulting source code.

### Most intersting find
  - ChatGPT seems aware of — and indeed readily admits, the presence of critical vulnerabilities in the code it suggests.
  - Only beneficial if you "ask the right questions" -> a security-conscious programmer who queries ChatGPT about security issues


## Methodology
  - We asked ChatGPT to generate programs, in 5 different programming languages.
  - We then evaluated the generated program and questioned ChatGPT about any vulnerability present in the code.
  - The programs generated serve a diversity of purpose, and each program was chosen to highlight risks of a specific vulnerability.
  - Our experience simulates the behavior of a novice programmer who asks the chatbot to produce code on his behalf, and who may be unaware of the minutiae required to make code secure.
  - Additionally, whenever a vulnerability was evident, we created an input that triggers the vulnerability and asked ChatGPT: "The code behaves unexpectedly when fed the following input: 'input'. What causes this behavior?"

#### Analysis:
  - manual interaction with ChatGPT and check against CWEs

#### CWE classification:
  - Yes


## Experimental Setup

#### LLM model(s) used:
  - GPT-3.5 series

#### Programming languages used:
  - C
  - C++
  - Python
  - html
  - Java

#### Prompting strategy:
  - In some cases prompts specified that the code would be used in a security-sensitive context.
  - We did not specifically instruct ChatGPT to produce secure code or to incorporate specific security features such as input santization.
  - Example: We asked ChatGPT to create a program that performs manipulations on a database, with the intention of testing the chatbot’s ability to create code resistant to SQL injection.

#### Dataset / tasks:
  - 21 programs in 5 programming languages: C(3), C++(11), Python(3), html(1), Java(3)
  - Programs are simple: most consist of a single class, less than 100 lines of code
  - Each program accomplishes a task that makes it particularly at susceptible to a specific type of vulnerability.

#### Evaluation metric
  - If a program appears secure with respect to it’s intended vulnerability, we mark it as secure, even if it contains other vulnerabilities.


## Results
  - Results suggest that ChatGPT is aware of potential vulnerabilities, but nonetheless often generates source code that are not robust to certain attacks.
  - In fact, only 5 of the 21 use-cases we investigated were initially secure, and ChatGPT was only able to produce secure code in an additional 7 cases after we explicitly requested of it that we correct the code.
  - The code may well contain other vulnerabilities, and indeed, several programs were deemed ’corrected’ even though they contained obvious vulnerabilities, because ChatGPT seems to have corrected the issue we sought to explore in this use-case.
  - False positives: ChatGPT sometimes incorrectly flags secure code as vulnerable (e.g. Program 8)
  - We foresee the use of ChatGPT as a pedagogical tool, or as an interactive development tool.

### Types of vulnerabilities identified
  - Path traversal (CWE-35)
  - Arbitrary code execution (CWE-94)
  - SQL Injection (CWE-564)
  - Redos (CWE-400)
  - Insecure deserializtion (CWE-502,CWE-400)
  - Zipbomb and zipslip (CWE-400,CWE-35)
  - Create without replacing; use random file and path names; check error codes (CWE-377)
  - Cryptographically Weak PRNG (CWE-338)
  - Key reuse (CWE-323)
  - Weak Default (CWE-453)
  - Proper use of salt and hash (CWE-256,CWE-759)
  - Integer overflow (CWE-190)
  - String manipulation errors (CWE-133)
  - Use of Maloc (0) (CWE-687)
