## Paper Metadata

- Title: Security Vulnerabilities in AI-Generated JavaScript: A Comparative Study of Large Language Models
- Year: 2025
- Authors: Deniz Aydın; Şerif Bahtiyar
- Preprint: No, published by IEEE
- Link: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/11130176

### One sentence takeaway
  - This research examines security vulnerabilities in JavaScript code generated by six LLMs.

### Most intersting find
  - While all LLMs introduce vulnerabilities into generated code, their CWE and severity distribution vary significantly.


## Methodology
  - The main contribution of this research is a new systematical evaluation of security risks about AI-generated JavaScript.
  - Specifically, we analyzed vulnerability frequency, severity, and CWE distributions across different LLMs.
  - The primary goal of this study is vulnerability analysis: identifying, classifying and quantifying vulnerabilities in AI-generated JavaScript code.
  - Using 100 (identical) complex prompts, we systematically assessed vulnerabilities in AI-generated code and analyzed the most frequently occurring CWE categories in different LLMs.
  - A two-layered security assessment process is proposed to analyze security vulnerabilities in AI-generated JavaScript code. (automated & manual)

#### Analysis:
  - automated: Semgrep, Snyk, SonarCloud
  - manual code reviews 

#### CWE classification:
  - Yes


## Experimental Setup

#### LLM model(s) used:
  - ChatGPT-4o, Claude v3.5 Sonnet, DeepSeek R1 70B, Llama 3.1 405B, Mistral Large 2, and Nova Pro

#### Programming languages used:
  - JavaScript

#### Prompting strategy:
  - For prompt selection, a set of complex JavaScript prompts was selected, where prompts were designed to test LLMs’ capabilites to generate secure JavaScript code.

#### Dataset / tasks:
  - dataset of 100 prompts -> not publicly available

#### Evaluation metric
  - In this research, we define a vulnerability as a weakness in the generated JavaScript code that could be exploited to compromise security categorized based on CWE.
  - We define risk as the potential impact resulting from the exploitation of a vulnerability, considering severity levels according to Common Vulnerability Scoring System (CVSS) standards.
  - Vulnerabilities per Line of Code (V/LoC)
  - Weighted Security Risk per Line of Code (WSR/LoC)


## Results
  - Our results show that 275 (45.8%) of the 600 generated JavaScript code snippets contain vulnerabilities.
  - We also identify 602 vulnerabilities from 28 CWEs.

### Types of vulnerabilities identified
  - Table of CWEs