## Paper Metadata

- Title: CodeLMSec Benchmark: Systematically Evaluating and Finding Security Vulnerabilities in Black-Box Code Language Models
- Year: 2024
- Authors: Hossein Hajipour, Keno Hassler, Thorsten Holz, Lea Schönherr, Mario Fritz
- Preprint: No, published by IEEE
- Link: https://www.computer.org/csdl/proceedings-article/satml/2024/495000a684/1WPECOk1dXa

### One sentence takeaway
  - In this work, we propose a method to systematically study the security issues of code language models to assess their susceptibility to generating vulnerable code.

### Most intersting find
  - We also observe that in most cases, the non-secure prompts lead to generating more vulnerable codes on the same model compared to the other model.


## Methodology
  - We propose an automated approach for finding prompts that systematically trigger the generation of codes with specific vulnerabilities using black-box code generation models.
  - We evaluate the effectiveness of our approach by examining code language models in generating high-risk security weaknesses.
  - The dataset serves as a benchmark to evaluate and compare the security weaknesses of code language models.
  - Pipeline: prompt generation -> code generation -> static analysis for vulnerability detection

#### Analysis:
  - automated with CodeQL

#### CWE classification:
  - Yes


## Experimental Setup

#### LLM model(s) used:
  - CodeGen-6B, gpt-3.5-turbo-0301, (GPT-4, and GitHub Copilot)

#### Programming languages used:
  - Python, C

#### Prompting strategy:
  - few-shot prompting
  - employed instructions for guidance
  - three strategies
    - FS-Codes
    - FS-Prompts
    - OS-Prompts

#### Dataset / tasks:
  - We use our method to create a collection of diverse non-secure prompts for various vulnerability scenarios.
  - We use a few examples of vulnerable code and their corresponding prompt to guide the black-box model to generate non-secure prompts.
  - More than 2000 codes with specific vulnerabilities generated.
  - Benchmark contains 280 non-secure prompts (200 for Python, 80 for C)

#### Evaluation metric
  - Number of vulnerable samples


## Results
  - In our experiments, we show that these generated prompts are transferable across different models, and in contrast to previous work, our prompts can be automatically generated for the targeted vulnerabilities.
  - FS-Codes performs better in finding codes with different CWEs in comparison to FS-Prompts and OS-Prompt.
  - In general, the results in Table III show that our approaches found more vulnerable codes that are generated by ChatGPT compared to CodeGen (Table II).

### Types of vulnerabilities identified
  - 15 representative CWEs that can be detected via CodeQL