## Paper Metadata

- Title: Assessing the Security of GitHub Copilot’s Generated Code - A Targeted Replication Study
- Year: 2024
- Authors: Vahid Majdinasab; Michael Joshua Bishop; Shawn Rasheed; Arghavan Moradidakhel; Amjed Tahir; Foutse Khomh
- Preprint: No, published by IEEE
- Link: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/10589764

### One sentence takeaway
  - This paper replicates the study of Pearce et al., which investigated security weaknesses in Copilot and uncovered several weaknesses in the code suggested by Copilot across diverse scenarios and languages.

### Most intersting find
  - There are 100% improvements with regard to some of the scenarios and CWEs and in some cases the new version of Copilot’s suggestions contains more weaknesses than what has been shown in the original study.


## Methodology
  - With the continued improvement in Copilot, it is expected that security measures will be put into place to ﬁlter out vulnerable code (that may introduce CWEs).
  - We aim to test this by replicating the study of Pearce et al. using a variety of CWEs and prompts (as in the original study).
  - Our replication examines Copilot’s security weaknesses using newer versions of Copilot and CodeQL.
  - We excluded suggestions with syntax errors from our evaluation process.
  - We eliminated duplicates in Copilot’s top-n suggestions. It is noteworthy that, in the original study [14], duplicates were removed by comparing the sequences of tokens. However, using AST similarity to remove the duplicates between the suggested solutions allows us to have a more accurate understanding of Copilot’s faults.
  - We have had challenges related to Copilot API changes. We noted that the API changes to Copilot (in the latest versions) have made analyzing the generated code (through CodeQL static analysis) more difﬁcult.
  - We analyzed a total of 141 code samples related to four CWEs manually.


#### Analysis:
  - automated: CodeQL (v2.12.4)
  - manual analysis by two co-authors

#### CWE classification:
  - Yes


## Experimental Setup

#### LLM model(s) used:
  - Copilot (v1.77.9225)

#### Programming languages used:
  - Python (v3.8.10) only

#### Prompting strategy:
  - Copilot is prompted to complete each scenario by placing the cursor at the position where code completion is needed.

#### Dataset / tasks:
  - We focus our experimental analysis on the Python language and analyzed 29 scenarios (54 scenarios in original) related to twelve CWEs.
  - We collect up to 55 solutions generated by Copilot for each scenario across multiple iterations.

#### Evaluation metric
  - Our evaluation concentrates solely on identifying vulnerabilities within the provided suggestions rather than assessing their accuracy in addressing the prompts.


## Results
  - Our results indicate that, with the improvements in newer versions of Copilot, the percentage of vulnerable code suggestions has reduced from 36.54% to 27.25%.
  - For the investigated Python suggestions, we found evidence of improvements, with a reduced number of vulnerable Copilot suggestions from 35.35% to 25.06%. (% mismatch?)
  - We also noted that there are 100% improvements with regard to some of the scenarios and CWEs (that is, the replication shows no weaknesses in the code suggestions). Interestingly, we note some cases where the new version of Copilot’s suggestions contains more weaknesses than what has been shown in the original study.
  - In February 2023, GitHub published an update on improvements in Copilot. New capabilities (since the original study) include using an AI-based vulnerability prevention system that targets common insecure coding patterns. -> For some CWEs this can be seen in the results.

### Types of vulnerabilities identified
  - Improper Input Validation
  - Unauthorized Path Traversal
  - OS Command Injection
  - etc