## Paper Metadata

- Title: Can We Trust Large Language Models Generated Code? A Framework for In-Context Learning, Security Patterns, and Code Evaluations Across Diverse LLMs
- Year: 2024
- Authors: Ahmad Mohsin, Helge Janicke, Adrian Wood, Iqbal H. Sarker, Leandros Maglaras, Naeem Janjua
- Preprint: Yes
- Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.12513

### One sentence takeaway
  - Our research introduces a framework for secure behavioral learning of LLMs through In-Context Learning (ICL) patterns during the code generation process, followed by rigorous security evaluations.

### Most intersting find
  - ICL security patterns, when provided through multiple examples, enable coding LLMs to understand security principles better and generate more secure code.


## Methodology
  - This framework enables various LLMs to acquire security knowledge and understand security by implementing ICL security patterns, followed by extensive security testing to assess their ability to produce safe and secure code.
  - Four research questions:
    - RQ1: How well can diverse LLMs generate secure code across various programming challenges in zero-shot scenarios? (most interesting for seminar paper)
    - RQ2: To what extent do LLMs understand and apply best practices and address vulnerabilities after using ICL security patterns in one-shot and few-shot learning?
    - RQ3: How do PDCG LLMs like ChatGPT-4 and Google Bard compare to CCP LLMs like GitHub Copilot and Code Whisperer in generating secure code and adapting to ICL security contexts?
    - RQ4: What security code smells persist after employing ICL security patterns in one-shot and few-shot scenarios, and what are the potential security risks?
  - Four stages:
    - As the first step of our proposed approach, we curate a range of diverse problem sets.
    - In the second stage of our approach, we develop in-context learning patterns to improve LLMs secure coding behaviors.
    - The third step involves generating ICL-based codes using various LLMs.
    - In the final phase of our proposed approach, we conduct security testing and quality evaluations of LLM-generated code.

#### Analysis:
  - manual reviews
  - static analysis: Snyk Security Code Analyzer, AWS security scanning API, AI SAST analyzer (Sixth SAST)

#### CWE classification:
  - Yes -> We used the MITRE CWE database to analyze the generated code and detect known vulnerabilities.


## Experimental Setup

#### LLM model(s) used:
  - prompt-driven code generators (PDCGs): ChatGPT-4.0, Google Bard-540B
  - coding CoPilots (CCPs): GitHub Copilot (= Codex-12B), Amazon Code Whisperer

#### Programming languages used:
  - C++, C#, Python

#### Prompting strategy:
  - In-Context learning: Zero, One, Few Shot
  - Chain-of-Thought

#### Dataset / tasks:
  - Our programming problem dataset draws from various open-source competitions, such as LeetCode, and includes API and design pattern problems that reflect current security trends.
  - Our programming problem datasets are notably diverse, ranging from Data Structures and Algorithms to Design Patterns and RESTful API development.
    - DS & Algos.: we used programming problems from LeetCode and GeeksforGeeks in C++.
    - MVC Design Pattern: we developed an MVC-based C# application.
    - RESTful API Design: we used Python with Flask to create a News API that utilizes LLMs.

#### Evaluation metric
  - The Code Security Risk Measure (CSRM) metric quantitatively measures the security risks associated with LLM-generated code by using source code from few-shot learning to compare and evaluate code from Post-ICL against problem sets of LLM-generated code. The metric considers the Lines of Code, CWEs, and code smells.
  - A higher CSRM score indicates a greater risk of exploitation by attackers.


## Results
  - Our research indicates that ICL-driven one-shot and few-shot learning patterns can enhance code security, reducing vulnerabilities in various programming scenarios.
  - Our research highlights LLMs are a potential source of new vulnerabilities to the software supply chain.
  - RQ1: We have identified 111 coding vulnerabilities in the source code generated by LLMs in the first iteration with zero shots.
  - RQ2: ICL security patterns, when provided through multiple examples, enable coding LLMs to understand security principles better and generate more secure code. However, even though we have provided extensive security guidance for the LLMs, vulnerabilities continue to exist in certain parts of the code.

### Types of vulnerabilities identified
  - Improper Input Validation
  - Insecure Path Traversal
  - Use of Dangerous Functions
  - SQL Injection
  - Exposure of Sensitive Information
  - Weak Encryption (One Way Hash without Salt)
  - etc.